Date: Thu, 11 Feb 1993 12:57 EST
From: James Damoulakis <jimd@nvsd4.enet.dec>
To: tenny@symbolics
Apparently-To: tenny@symbolics
Subject: OSF/1 QAR Info 


Hi Dave,

I have attached below the procedure for a seed unit customer to submit 
a QAR.

Also, the base level 11 and 12 release notes are only available in postscript.
I will send you the postscript files in follow-on messages. (Hopefully they
won't get truncated along the way!).

Regards, 

Jim

    
    DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION
    
    PRODUCT SUPPORT FOR ALPHA DEVELOPMENT PRODUCTS IN THE U.S.
    
    
         It is important to Digital that your early Alpha Development System be
         employed effectively.  We have organized special product support to
         minimize time lost due to software changes or hardware downtime.  You
         were pre-registered for Alpha product support when you signed the Loan
         of Development Product Agreement.
    
         All problems should first be logged by dialing 1-800-354-9000 and
         pressing "3" as suggested by the automated call prompter.  Enter the
         special access code "1999" and identify yourself to the call screening
         specialist as an Alpha Development System user.
    
         DSNLink and DSIN are also available from your VAX/VMS or RISC/ULTRIX
         system, allowing for toll-free, electronic software support.  For
         further information, call 1-800-354-9000.

         Software problems will be addressed by the first available specialist
         at the Customer Support Center.  Alpha Development System users
         receive high priority.  Calls relating specifically to the use of
         Alpha Migration Tools, the migration process, or migration activity
         will be forwarded to the supporting Alpha Migration Center, which will
         then contact you.
    
         If it is determined that an on-site repair visit is required, the
         nearest Digital Service Center will be notified and you will receive
         prompt support.
    
         If resolution cannot be accomplished by the engineer or specialist,
         Digital Services will escalate the problem to engineering and notify
         you that this has been done.  Digital Services will monitor the status
         of the problem and either resolve the problem or notify you when
         resolution can be expected.
    
         Extended support coverage plans to meet particular needs can be
         arranged by your local Digital Services office.
    
    
